h1. Reia

Welcome to Reia (pronounced RAY-uh), a Ruby-like scripting language for the 
Erlang virtual machine (BEAM).

h2. Rewrite

This branch contains a rewrite of the original implementation.  The goals of
this rewrite are a better overall implementation, core types with identical
semantics to Erlang's core types, and simplifying the implementation so it is
easier to test and debug.

This branch is presently missing many of the features presently available in
the "master" branch.  These features are being readded as part of the new
implementation, however some of them (such as the concurrent object model) have
been delayed until the core implementation can be properly tested and debugged.

For more information, see the roadmap:

"http://wiki.reia-lang.org/wiki/Roadmap":http://wiki.reia-lang.org/wiki/Roadmap

h2. New branch underway!

Looking for the latest Reia developments?  They're not happening here, sorry.
Reia is undergoing a rewrite and the latest code is available here:

"http://github.com/tarcieri/reia/tree/minimalist":http://github.com/tarcieri/reia/tree/minimalist

This branch is preserved as a mostly-working dead end, so people can experiment
with the features the new branch will eventually have until they reach a certain
level of feature parity.  For more information, see the roadmap:

"http://wiki.reia-lang.org/wiki/Roadmap":http://wiki.reia-lang.org/wiki/Roadmap

h2. Compiling Reia

Reia requires Erlang version R12B-3 (5.6.3) or later. The latest version of 
Erlang is available here:

"http://www.erlang.org/download.html":http://www.erlang.org/download.html

To compile Reia, type:

 rake

under the Reia source tree to build Reia.

h2. Implementation

Here's some thoroughly interesting implementation trivia about Reia:

* Leex-based scanner
* Yecc-based grammar (a Neotoma-based branch is also available)
* Successive parse transforms convert Reia parse trees into the Erlang abstract
  format, then into BEAM/HiPE bytecode

h2. Links

* Home Page: "http://reia-lang.org":http://reia-lang.org
* Reia Wiki: "http://wiki.reia-lang.org/":http://wiki.reia-lang.org/
* Mailing List: "http://groups.google.com/group/reia":http://groups.google.com/group/reia
* Author's Blog: "http://unlimitednovelty.com/":http://unlimitednovelty.com/
* Author's Twitter: "http://twitter.com/bascule":http://twitter.com/bascule
* IRC: irc.freenode.net #reia

h2. About the Author

Reia was created by Tony Arcieri, a programmer from Boulder, Colorado, USA.
Tony has a background in network services and distributed peer-to-peer systems.  
His favorite programming languages are Ruby and Erlang.
