h1. Reia

Welcome to Reia (pronounced RAY-uh), a Ruby/Python-like scripting language for
the Erlang virtual machine (BEAM).

h2. Compiling Reia

Reia requires Erlang version R12B-3 (5.6.3) or later. The latest version of 
Erlang is available here:

"http://www.erlang.org/download.html":http://www.erlang.org/download.html

To compile Reia, type:

 make

under the Reia source tree to build Reia.

h2. Installation

If Reia has compiled successfully, type:

 make install
 
to install Reia systemwide.  This will install the "reia" and "ire" scripts in
/usr/local/bin.  Be sure to add this to your path (or move the scripts 
elsewhere) if you'd like to be able to use Reia systemwide.

h2. Usage

Reia provides three ways to execute programs:

* The Reia interpreter, located in bin/reia (or just "reia" if you've installed 
  Reia systemwide).  This runs Reia programs from the command line.
  
* The interactive Reia interpreter, located in bin/ire (or just "ire" if you've
  installed Reia systemwide).  This provides an interactive environment (a 
  read-eval-print loop) for running Reia programs, or just exploring the 
  language.
  
* The Reia static compiler, located in bin/reiac (not installed systemwide).  
  This compiles Reia to .beam files which may be used in conjunction with 
  Erlang code.  The static Reia compiler is intended for compiling the 
  self-hosted parts of Reia and is not intended for general-purpose use.

h2. Implementation

Here's some thoroughly interesting implementation trivia about Reia:

* Leex-based scanner
* Yecc-based grammar
* Compiler transforms Reia abstract forms to Erlang abstract forms or BEAM 
  bytecode
* Partly self-hosted: Reia's builtin types are mostly written in Reia

h2. Links

* Home Page: "http://reia-lang.org":http://reia-lang.org
* Reia Wiki: "http://wiki.reia-lang.org/":http://wiki.reia-lang.org/
* Mailing List: "http://groups.google.com/group/reia":http://groups.google.com/group/reia
* Author's Blog: "http://unlimitednovelty.com/":http://unlimitednovelty.com/
* Author's Twitter: "http://twitter.com/bascule":http://twitter.com/bascule
* IRC: irc.freenode.net #reia

h2. About the Author

Reia was created by Tony Arcieri, a programmer from Boulder, Colorado, USA.
Tony has a background in network services and distributed peer-to-peer systems.  
His  favorite programming languages are Ruby and Erlang.
